Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the
User Experience Technology Manager for
Mac OS X,
John Galenzi.
Seems like I've been
in this hall all day.
All right, well, welcome to session 145,
Apple Help.
Apple's really embracing a lot
of open standards for Mac OS X,
and Help is no different.
Apple Help is quite clearly
going to be HTML-based.
And this session is talking about that,
both from a developer
engineering point of view,
how to implement
Apple Help through APIs that exist,
as well as helping you
author the HTML Help,
figuring out what to do
specifically to make it really nice.
And I just want to encourage you as
developers to deliver really good help.
It's very important from a
user experience point of view,
and users-- if you look at the statistics
of who's buying Macintoshes now,
stats that Steve showed in the
keynote in terms of iMac buyers,
there's a large percentage of
users that are new to computers,
new to the Macintosh.
And your ability to deliver really
comprehensive help and interactive help
is key to their success in the Macintosh
and their enjoyment of their machine.
So to talk about Apple Help,
I'd like to welcome
on stage Gordon Meyer,
who is part of the human
interface team at Apple.
Thanks, John.
JOHN WOLFF: You're welcome.
Here's your switcher.
Thank you.
Hello, everyone.
Thanks for coming.
I'm wondering how many of you were in
this session on Apple Help last year?
Could you raise your hand for me?
OK, great.
And how many of you are responsible
for writing and authoring help
systems for your products?
All right, just one more.
How many of you are responsible
for implementing help systems,
that is, getting your applications
to talk to your help?
Okay, great.
We have good information for everyone.
Before we begin, I should probably warn
you about something,
though.
I went to a public speaking class, right,
to prepare, and they said that I should
practice this presentation
while I was doing other things.
So I decided to practice it
while I was driving my car.
It worked pretty well.
People look at you kind of funny
because you're talking to yourself.
But there's a side effect
I didn't really anticipate.
So if at any point I should
stop and suddenly yell,
get out of my way,
don't take it personally.
It has nothing to do
with your driving record.
It's just a habit.
Well, unless you drive a blue
minivan with Utah plates,
then I owe you an apology.
Anyway, so let's get started.
Apple Help.
There's a lot of information to cover,
but let's start by going back in
time just a little bit to System 7.5.
At that point, the help system for the
Macintosh was Apple Guide.
Nice little system,
small floating panels,
took users through tasks
step by step by step.
worked great for novice users,
wasn't so great for
intermediate and advanced users,
but it really wasn't designed for them.
It was also expensive
and hard to produce.
So with System 8.5,
Apple introduced Apple Help,
which is what we're going
to talk about today.
The system is much more flexible
and a lot easier to author for.
And we're going to give
you all the details,
kind of soup to nuts of Apple Help,
all the features, how to author it.
But let me cut to the bottom line first,
because I'm kind of a bottom line person,
and I know some of you are too.
So why should you adopt Apple Help?
Well, if you're an author,
you'll be pleased to hear
that it's very easy to create.
It uses standard HTML 3.2.
You can use any off-the-shelf
authoring tool you like.
Dreamweaver, GoLive, BBEdit, SimpleText,
even something on another platform.
If you're an implementer,
it's equally easy to implement.
We have a nice set of APIs,
very simple yet flexible.
And I'm really proud to announce today,
really pleased to announce today,
that Apple Help is the
help system for Mac OS X.
If you deploy an Apple Help,
you can use your help across Carbon,
Cocoa, and classic environments.
One help system across everything.
So that's the bottom line.
But we're going to
cover some other stuff,
as I said.
We're going to talk
about the Help Viewer,
which is kind of the heart of Apple Help.
Talk about its features and
give a little demonstration.
We'll also talk about how to
create an Apple Help book.
You'll see that that's very easy to do.
Then we'll cover the Apple Help APIs,
which are how you get your application
talking to the help system.
And as a bonus,
we have free Ginsu knives for everyone.
Oh, I'm kidding.
Of course.
Of course I'm kidding.
What we have is something much better,
the HTMLRenderingLibrary.
This is a piece of code that you can use
in your application to display HTML data.
And the fan club for the
rendering library is present.
The Help Viewer.
So as I said,
the Help Viewer is the heart
of the Apple Help system.
What it is, it's a lightweight
HTML display application.
It renders standard
HTML 3.2 without forms,
JavaScripts, or plugins,
but it does display QuickTime media.
We don't use the
QuickTime plugin to do that.
We do it natively.
And it can handle any kind of
QuickTime data you want to throw at it.
Movies, stills, sound, VR,
interactive streaming.
I've been attending some
of the QuickTime sessions
across the street this week,
and there's a lot of great things that
can be implemented in help systems
to make some really unique help.
And you can use all of
that in the Help Viewer.
So you might be thinking,
if this is the first
you've heard of Apple Help,
you might be wondering, well, gee,
Gordon, if it's HTML-based and
it can display movies,
why don't I just use a web browser?
Well, you could, but you shouldn't.
Apple Help is the help
platform for Mac OS X.
Your users will be expecting
your help to appear there.
Additionally, web browsers are these
big monster applications,
lots of UI, lots of memory.
The Help Viewer is an optimized
application specifically
for displaying help.
And because we know that's
how it's going to be used,
we've added some unique
features to it to support that.
For example, we've incorporated some
Sherlock technology to allow you to
search all of your help really quick.
It returns a nice relevance-ranked
list of results for your users.
We've also extended HTML to allow
you to launch AppleScript automations
so you can do things automatically.
We'll talk about that some more.
And with this version of Apple Help,
we have the ability to pull
help content from the internet.
That way you can make sure users
are getting the latest information
and you can continue to develop and
enhance your help and still stay
within the help viewer environment.
So that's the high-level view,
but it's time to take a look at it,
because, you know,
pictures speak louder than words.
So to help me out with the demo,
I want to introduce Jessica Kahn.
Jessica is the lead
engineer for Apple Help.
Welcome.
So Jessica's going to drive while I talk,
and this saves me from the potential
public embarrassment of having to point,
click, and talk all at the same time.
So here you see the Help Viewer.
It's rendering HTML nicely.
It's a native Mac OS application.
It's been carbonized,
so it has the Aqua appearance.
You see some lists that you can click on.
You see a graphic there that's
being displayed by QuickTime.
And across the top of the
screen is our interface,
our very simple interface
for accessing searching.
You can type in a word there,
and word or phrase will get some results.
Why don't we look for something on-- oh,
Firewire.
So Help Viewer quickly
searches all of Mac Help,
there's about 150,
200 pages at this point,
and finds the most relevant
topics based on what we typed in.
Let's take a look at one of those.
So this particular page has a
QuickTime movie embedded on it,
and it began to play
when the page was opened.
As I said,
we don't use the QuickTime plugin,
but we do respect all of the embed
parameters you'd expect in HTML.
So this one was set to autoplay.
You can also show the controller
or not show the controller,
whatever it is you want to do.
Let's look now for something
on internet settings.
And again, we've searched through all
of Mac Help and found the
most relevant information.
Why don't we go into one of those?
And we want to show you
another feature of Apple Help,
which is the AppleScript automations.
Now, this page is talking about
the Preferences application,
because that's how you set your
internet preferences on Mac OS X.
And that blue button is an image map,
and that has an href that
launches an AppleScript.
Why don't we go ahead and check that out?
So when Jessica clicks that,
it runs the AppleScript,
which opens Preferences
application for the user.
It's a very simple example
of using AppleScript to
automate tasks for the users.
The Help Center is a list of
Apple Help books that are installed
on the system and those that
are available for the particular
user that Jessica has logged in on.
In this case,
you see we have Mac Help and
QuickTime Help are both available.
And when you convert your
book to Apple Help format,
it'll show up in this list too.
We've got plenty of room for you.
At the bottom, we have something new.
It's called the Developer Center.
We've just added this.
Why don't we check that out?
This is on DP4, the CD you all got.
And this is the complete documentation
you need to develop on Mac OS X.
Our TechPubs group has done a great
job of converting their stuff over.
They're continuing to
work on it and improve it.
And why don't we just take a quick
look and browse through here.
And of course,
because this is an Apple Help format,
it's completely searchable,
whatever you want to find.
Why don't we go back?
Yeah.
Sure.
Let's check out QuickTime Help.
This is kind of a special book.
Now, this is the Mac OS 9 book.
It's from Mac OS 9, QuickTime Help.
We've copied it over to Mac OS X.
Works fine.
That's fully supported.
But this is an interesting example,
because there is very little of this book
that actually exists on the hard disk.
Most of it is on the internet.
Now, we can search it.
We can cruise through the table
of contents a little bit here.
But when we really
want to look at a page,
the help viewer is going to retrieve
that page for us from the internet.
Once the internet wakes up.
There we go.
Great.
So what you saw happening there was
URL access was coming to the front.
It's not displaying as
progress bar for us right now,
and we decided to leave that in because
we know you're a skeptical crowd and
otherwise it would just seem like there
was a delay or you wouldn't be able
to tell what was really happening.
But that page has been pulled from one
of Apple's internet servers across the
internet and brought down for the user.
So that's one of the new
features we've added.
It was added to Mac OS 9 and
it's something we're going to
talk about a little bit later,
some more.
Why don't we go back to the Help Center.
and check out Mac Help again.
And let's look for
something to do with sound.
What I want to show is how the
Help Viewer searches content.
So we're in Mac Help,
and we're looking for
something to do with sound.
And we found some various
topics related to that.
But of course,
QuickTime Help is installed here too.
And we know that that has
content about playing sound,
of course.
So we could go back to
QuickTime Help and search,
but it's much easier to use this
link at the bottom of the page.
And it says search all help.
When we do that,
we get hits from QuickTime and
from Mac Help all at the same time.
We've just instantly searched all of the
help that's available in the Help Center.
And when your book's
installed in the Help Center,
we'd be searching your book too.
Thanks, Jeff.
So that's the Help Viewer.
What do you think?
If we go back to the slides,
I want to talk a little bit more
about some of those features you saw.
The first one is integrating
Internet-based content.
The QuickTime Help book
was an example of this.
This is something new that we've added
and it's a really powerful feature.
It's something that Apple is going to be
taking great advantage of in Mac OS X.
Mac OS X is a great Internet client
and as such is going to have
partially-based Internet help.
[Transcript missing]
and your help is wrong and
nobody has even seen it yet.
It's really a bummer.
You know, so my wife, I got to tell you,
so my wife tells me that the reason I'm
losing my hair is that I'm getting older,
but I swear it's last-minute changes.
If I could just get, like,
Workman's Comp to pay for Rogaine,
I'd be all set.
Anyway, so this is a great feature.
It's good for you because you can
continue to develop and improve
your help over time after where
you would normally freeze it,
and even after the product is shipped,
you can continue to enhance it
because your users automatically get
the latest content from your server.
It's also good for customers, right?
In this Internet age,
people want the latest,
up-to-date information.
That's why we go to the
web in the first place,
and this makes sure they can
get the latest help all within
the help viewer environment.
So let's talk about how this works.
Now the help viewer always
looks for content locally.
That is, that's where it loads its files.
So how do we get it to
talk to the internet?
Well, you saw URL access.
That's part of our trick.
But let's take a closer
look at how that works.
In the simplest scenario,
the help viewer wants to open a page.
It looks in your
application's help folder.
It finds the page it's looking for,
so it opens it.
But what if the page isn't there?
Well, next, the help viewer will
look in the help cache.
The help cache contains help
files that were recently
downloaded from the internet.
If the page the help viewer is
looking for is in the help cache,
then it loads it from there.
If it's not in the help cache,
then it asks URL access to go
to a remote internet mirror,
retrieve the pages looking for,
URL access brings that page and
puts it in the help cache from
which the help viewer loads it.
So what's happening behind the scenes
is the help viewer is pre-appending the
location it's looking for at each stage.
Again, in the local situation,
it's looking for my app help/page.html.
It doesn't find it there.
It pre-appends the
location of the help cache,
still looking for page.html.
If it doesn't find it there,
then it turns it into a URL and
pre-appends the location where you
said your internet content is stored.
You tell us where the internet content
is stored when you index the files,
and we're going to cover that.
And that's what it passes off to
URL access for it to retrieve for us.
Now once a page is put in the help cache,
it stays there for three days.
This allows users to go
back and look at it again,
right, because they just looked at it.
They might want to go back and review it.
And they don't have to go through
this retrieval process again.
But it doesn't stick around
so long that it becomes stale.
Again, you specify the remote location
when you index the files,
so you do need to know in advance
before you ship the product
where your files are going to be.
And you can't put
everything on the internet.
You have to have the
search index file locally,
because that's where we know
where the internet site is.
And also, it allows users to search
the content without having
to connect to the internet.
That's an important feature.
So that's internet-based content.
There's some other great features.
Now, we use standard HTML lots of places,
but these are things that you can add to
your HTML to enhance the user experience,
some extensions.
And we're going to cover
the first three in depth.
We're going to talk about
AppleScript automations,
how to improve search results
to make sure users can find
what they're looking for.
And we're going to talk
about Anchor Lookup,
which is also something
new that we've added.
But I want to talk for a second here
about the dynamic table of contents,
because this is kind of a hidden feature,
but it's unique and you might need it.
So in the demo,
there was the Help Center.
And the Help Center contained
three items-- Mac Help,
QuickTime Help, and the Developer Center.
Those items appeared in the list because
the Help Viewer found them on the hard
disk and built that list automatically.
So that same technique can be
used inside your help book to
build your table of contents.
Now, if you have a product that has a
lot of plug-ins or optional pieces
that users may or may not install,
you can use the same feature to build
your table of contents automatically,
making sure that users are
only seeing help for the things
they've chosen to install.
That's kind of what it does.
If you want the details on how it works,
that's all covered in the SDK,
which we'll tell you about at the end.
And finally, I want to talk about
the Developer Center.
Now, you saw it in the demonstration,
and I want to point out
two important things.
One, as I think you've already realized,
it's a great resource for you all.
If you have questions about
developing for Mac OS X,
go there, type in your search term,
browse around,
get the information you need.
But secondly, it's important to note,
because Apple is now using the
Help Viewer and Apple Help to
deliver all of its content.
All of our end-user-based documentation
is delivered in this format,
and all of our technical publications
are delivered in this format.
We're solidly behind this,
and we want you to
join us in this effort.
So let's talk about
AppleScript automations.
Those of you who are fans of Apple Guide,
this is a great way to recover
some of that interactivity
and do it for me type things.
It's also a really good way
to reduce kind of the clutter
that's in your documentation.
If there are common steps that have
to be done frequently by users,
automate them.
It gets people out of the help,
which they really don't want to be in,
let's face it,
and back into using your application.
It's really easy to do.
You go to href,
as you see on the bottom of the slide,
which is a standard HTML link,
but you give it a special URL,
which is help colon run script.
And you give it the path
to your AppleScript,
which has to be on the local hard disk.
You can't run an
AppleScript that's on the internet.
And you can pass a
parameter if you want to.
For example, in MacHelp we use this.
We pass parameters for
applications to open.
We have one script that does it,
and we just give it the parameters.
That reduces the number of scripts we
have and eliminates some testing for us.
So AppleScript automations are a
good thing to add to your help.
It just makes your help a lot
more interactive and usable.
Search results.
Apple Help is all about searching.
We've got a great search
engine courtesy of Sherlock.
You can type in a word, a phrase,
a sentence, whatever you'd like.
It automatically finds the most relevant
topics based on what you typed in.
But as a content author,
it's your responsibility to test this
and make sure that people are getting
the information they need by typing in
words that you think they might use.
We support standard
HTML tags wherever possible.
This is a great example of that,
because we use the keyword tag,
which is a standard meta tag,
And if you add this to your pages,
you can use it to provide
synonyms and misspellings,
just to make sure that people can
get the results they're looking for.
In Mac Help, for example,
when we're talking about QuickTime,
we always keyword with the word "quick"
and the word "time." And that way,
if somebody doesn't type in
the product name exactly right,
they're still going to get the
information they're looking for.
You can also use the noindex tag.
This is robots equals noindex,
common tag, and this will tell our search
index to skip that page and
not include it in searching.
Finally, there's Apple Abstract.
This is a tag we've added,
and the contents of this meta tag
can contain a summary of your page.
If you provide an Apple Abstract
for a page and it shows
up in the search results,
the abstract information
shows up underneath the hit.
That way people can decide if
they want to go view that page,
if it looks like it has the
information they're going to need.
This is a great addition for
Internet-based help because it helps
people decide whether or not they want
to connect and download that page.
Next is Anchor Lookup.
This is a new feature we've
added since the last time we
met and talked about Apple Help.
This is a great way to
provide contextual help.
Now,
we didn't include it in the demo because
we didn't want to make the demo too long,
but it's really easy to explain.
Anchor is a standard HTML tag.
You embed it in your HTML and
you give a name for that anchor,
such as foo.
From within your application,
say from a help button in a dialog,
using our APIs,
you tell the help viewer to open the
page that contains the anchor foo.
The application doesn't have to
know what page that occurs on.
The help viewer will see that anchor,
find the right page, and automatically
display it for the user.
That way, the content authors can
continue to modify the content,
move stuff around as necessary,
without having to deal with
breaking things in the application.
This is a new feature.
I think you'll find it really handy.
Authoring Apple Help.
Excuse me.
This is where we get to the nitty gritty.
Now, you've heard me babble on for a few
minutes about how great the help
system is and how easy it is to use,
but this is where the
proof is in the pudding,
so to speak.
You could literally go from
HTML to Apple Help in five minutes.
We've worked really hard to
make this as easy as possible.
Now you need to start with HTML.
Remember, we support HTML 3.2.
You could use existing files.
You can create some new ones.
Just author some HTML.
Once you've done that,
decide on which page is
going to be your start page.
This is the page that appears when you
click your book name in the Help Center.
It's also the page that appears when
somebody accesses your Help menu.
To that start page, you add one meta tag.
A meta tag is standard HTML.
It isn't displayed in the page.
So you can go ahead and add this.
It won't affect the page if you're
reusing it in browsers on the
web or in some other help system.
This meta tag is called Apple Title.
And the contents of the meta
tag is the name of your book.
In this example, myapp.help.
This is the name that's
displayed in the Help Center.
And it also becomes your book ID.
The book ID is used in the APIs.
That's all you have to do,
is add that one tag to one page.
The next step is to index it.
We give you a drag-and-drop
indexing tool.
You take your folder of HTML,
you drop it on the indexing tool,
it quickly goes through and
scans all of the content,
pays attention to keywords,
Apple abstracts, no index,
and everything else it needs to look at.
And it creates a search index file,
which is a small file that
automatically puts it in the right
place within your help folder.
Now, if you're going to use
Internet-based content,
this is where you tell us where
your remote mirror site is,
what the URL is, where we can go and
download help if we need to.
And if you're using Anchor Lookup
to provide contextual help,
then you need to turn on a checkbox.
But it's really as easy as that.
The next thing to do
is to store your help.
On Mac OS X,
your application's help is stored
within your applications bundle.
You take your help folder,
you put it in there with the
rest of your other resources.
If you have localized resources,
that's great.
You can have localized help.
You put it inside there as well.
This provides a drag and drop install of
your application and all the help files.
People can move it around and,
heaven forbid, even throw it away,
and they throw away the
app and the help it wants.
Nice feature.
And on Mac OS X, because we pay attention
to file permissions,
if somebody doesn't have permission
to launch your application,
then they won't see your
help and vice versa.
This makes for a help center that's
targeted to exactly what you can use.
This is a cool feature.
So on the authoring side of things,
you're done.
You started with HTML,
hopefully added some
AppleScript enhancements,
some keywords to make sure
people can find their content,
maybe decided some of it was
going to be internet-based.
And it's as simple as that.
The next step is to get your application
to open the Help Viewer at the
appropriate time with the right content.
And to cover how to do that, it's not me,
it's Miller time for me,
I want to reintroduce
The person responsible for bringing
Apple Help to Mac OS X and the
lead engineer for Apple Help,
Jessica Kahn.
Jessica?
Thanks, Gordon.
Okay.
Well, as Gordon said,
I'm here primarily to talk to application
developers about how you can provide
Apple Help from within your application.
I'm also going to be covering a
little bit about some new help
URLs that have been introduced
in the Mac OS X help viewer.
They're so new, in fact,
that Mac Help hasn't
necessarily adopted them,
so it's better for me to discuss them
with you so that you get it right.
And I'm also going to be discussing
the HTMLRenderingLib briefly,
which is the underlying rendering
technology for the help viewer,
and you can use that in
your application as well.
So here we are on the next slide,
but actually I'm going to
take a moment to-- well,
I was considering bringing a
soapbox and getting up on it,
but then I thought I'll be nervous
enough that I'm going to fall down on the
stage or something ridiculous like that.
So let's pretend I have a
soapbox and I'm going to get up.
As much as it's personally gratifying
for me to see you adopt Apple Help,
I want to see you adopt it
because I want Mac OS X,
in particular, to be awesome.
And part of Mac OS X being
awesome is it being an easy
transition for our existing users.
The way to make it easy for them is not
only to provide wonderful help content,
but to make sure that they know
how to get to that help content.
And I think that if we're
consistent with bringing them help
content through the help viewer,
they're going to have an easier
time of making this transition.
Another thing about this is that
in the past we know that you've had
to do a number of different things
to provide help to your users.
We've changed over the years.
and some of you have
custom help solutions.
Please consider not porting
those custom help solutions.
We've got a really easy solution for you,
and I'm going to explain
how easy it is now.
Okay, so first things first,
as your application launches,
you're going to want a help menu.
And the way you get that help menu
in Mac OS X is a little different
than it has been in the past.
But it's easy.
For Carbon and Cocoa applications,
we'll do all of the work for you as
long as you have a simple help system.
But at the same time,
if you don't have a simple help system,
we understand that you
need it to be customizable.
In the simplest case,
you've got one book of help content,
and you just need a help
menu with one item in it,
and that item will be your
application name space help.
All you need for that to appear
automatically in your application and,
in fact, for the menu item to be handled
automatically for you is a key in
the file known as your Info.plist.
I'm not sure if all of you
know what an Info.plist is.
Perhaps if you saw the app packaging
session earlier today or one of
the core foundation sessions,
you may have heard a little bit about it.
But it's basically a way on
Mac OS X for you to give the system
enough information about your app that
it can do a lot of things for you.
So we have a special key that we'd
like you to put in your Info.plist.
That key is the
CFBundle help book folder.
With that key,
you can put one string as the value,
and that string should be the
name of the folder in which
your help content is stored.
So as Gordon mentioned,
your help content should be
stored in a folder that's inside
of your application bundle.
So for example, if I have an application
that is called Sketch,
that's been used in
examples earlier today,
inside of my Sketch.app bundle and down
into the resources area of the bundle,
I'll have a folder.
Say it's called Sketch space help.
And that can be localized into
multiple different languages.
So in my English, El Praj,
I could have a Sketch help.
And in my German, El Praj,
I can have a Sketch help.
And the files inside of Sketch help are
localized into the appropriate languages.
But please remember,
as with any other resource
that you're localizing,
you do not localize the
name of the resource.
So you have Sketch help down in there.
And in your plist,
you just have CFBundle help
book folder with the
corresponding key of Sketch help.
With that plist entry, as you launch,
again, Carbon or Cocoa,
we make your help menu,
we put the item in it,
and we handle that item
when the user picks it.
So I'm sure you're wondering, well,
what do you do?
What if I don't want you to do that?
So the thing that we do for
you automatically is that
when the user picks that item,
we would go out and find the
entry page for your help content.
That entry page is what
Gordon discussed earlier where you
put the meta tag for the Apple title.
And for, I would guess,
98% of applications,
this is about all you need to do
to provide content for your users,
particularly if you're using the
help viewer since that content
is going to be multifaceted as
you want it to be with movies,
AppleScript, and very searchable.
Alright, but there are some
applications out there,
I'll admit, that have very complicated
help menus sometimes,
sometimes to my dismay.
If you want to do that,
we're going to let you.
We've heard that you need to be able to
do your own thing with the help menu,
and there are a couple different
ways that you can customize.
The first and easiest one is if
you need more than one book of
help content for your application,
let's say you've got an app and it needs
help and then you've got plug-ins and
they need separate help for some reason,
you can still use the CFBundle help book.
Book folder key in your P list,
but instead of putting
one string as your value,
you can put an array of
strings as your value.
Each string will be the name of
the folder for the different book.
Once you do that,
things get a little more
complicated and we can't handle
things automatically for you.
We will instantiate the help
menu for you at that point,
but it's your responsibility
to add menu items and it's your
responsibility to handle those
menu items when they're picked.
You can even do one level
further of customization,
and of course,
no matter what platform you're on,
if you know the way to programmatically
instantiate your own help menu,
feel free if that's
the way you want to go,
but I hope that you'll let
us do the work for you.
One last thing.
If that is the route that you go,
there's an API.
It's one of the new Apple Help APIs,
and it's called AHRegisterHelpBook.
You need to call that if you
have more than one help book,
and you need to call it for each book.
What it does is it places
your book in the help center.
So you think,
so what if my book's in the Help Center?
I can get to it from my Help menu.
That's all I need.
Well,
you lose out on a lot of the features
of the Help Viewer if you don't
put your help in the Help Center.
For instance, it won't be searchable,
and that's one of the key
things about Help Viewer.
Okay,
the example of the simplest case and
the case that we hope you'll adopt since
it'll be less error-prone for you and,
you know,
great for our users because it's simple.
If you have one help book and it's
stored within your app bundle,
again,
your Info.plist should contain the key,
CFBundle help book folder,
and the string of the folder
name that your help is stored
in within your app bundle.
So we talked briefly about
one of the Apple Help APIs,
the Register Book API,
but there are a number of others
that help you customize either
your help menu or if you have help
buttons within your application.
Their shipping is a help framework,
which will be part of
the Carbon umbrella,
but it's not yet in DP4.
It will also be available in CarbonLib,
so you can ship an application for
CarbonLib running on 9.whatever
and also ship that same binary to
run on 10 and not have to change
the way you handle your help menu.
And finally, it's usable by Cocoa apps.
By nature of the fact
that it's just a C API,
you can link to the help
framework and use these APIs.
So what are they?
Well,
the first one is registering a help book.
And again, that puts your help book
into the help center.
Next,
there are APIs that cause HelpViewer
to open to a particular location.
These are going to be the
most common APIs that you're
probably going to want to use.
They are ah-go-to-main-toc,
ah-go-to-page, and ah-lookup-anchor.
And we'll discuss them in
detail in a slide or two.
And finally,
there's an API for performing
a search programmatically,
and that's ah-search.
So examples.
And at this point,
I want to note that these
examples work in DP4.
So I want you to take your CD home and
try start hooking up your help stuff.
The help menu stuff is
not yet implemented,
but you can still, you know,
make a test menu, hook up those items,
have buttons and hook them up.
Okay.
So the first one is ahgo2mainTOC.
And you specify a constant
there of which TOC you want.
A TOC is a table of contents.
And a main TOC would specify either
the help center or the developer center
that you saw in Gordon's demo earlier.
So specify K-A-H-T-O-C type user to go
to the Help Center or K-A-H-T-O-C type
developer to go to the Developer Center.
All right, to go to the main page of
your application's help book,
which is probably the most common
thing that you're going to want to do,
you call ah-go-to-page.
The first parameter there
is a CFString representing
the name of your book.
Now,
it's a little confusing in these slides.
I regret that.
The name of your book is not
the name of the book folder.
The name of your book is the name that
you specified in the Apple title tag.
So anywhere in these APIs that you
see that we're requesting a book ID,
the book ID is the Apple title.
So turn that into a CFString,
pass that to us.
The next parameter is optional,
and here it's set to null.
The parameter is a path.
So you could conceivably
pass us a book ID and then a
partial path into that book,
and we would find that file for you.
Here it's null, meaning that we want the
main page for the book.
And the third parameter, also optional,
is the anchor parameter.
If you specified that,
we would open to the anchor that
you specified in the page that you
specified using the other parameters.
Here it's null.
You don't ever have to.
to supply an anchor to us
in the AH GoToPage routine.
Finally, you can go to any HTML file
on the disk and make sure
that it opens in Help Viewer.
You can also do that
with the AH GoToPage.
You see here that we use sort of a mix
and match of the different parameters.
They're optional and you can kind of
combine them to make cool things happen.
Here the book name is null
because this file might have
nothing to do with your book.
You're specifying a file:URL that is
the full path to the file on disk.
Here we have no anchor specified,
but you could have an anchor specified.
Actually,
let me take a moment to make sure
that you guys understand what we're
talking about when we say anchor.
I don't think that we've
had an example of it,
the way it looks in HTML.
That's the tag that starts with A and
then space and then name and equals foo.
Foo would be your anchor there.
The next type of help
APIs are lookups and searches.
Lookups actually take
you to a place on disk.
That's why they were listed
that way a couple slides back.
The lookups are what
Gordon discussed before,
and they're especially helpful,
as he said, for content that changes when
you don't want to break your app.
So what you would do here is,
let's say I know that I'm going to
have a page on how to print in my app.
But I don't know necessarily that
that page is going to reside in a
particular directory of my help book.
I don't know what that
file name is going to be.
All I do is make sure that in that
file I have a name equals printing.
And then I call ahlookup anchor
with the CFString of my book ID,
again the Apple title,
and a CFString of the
anchor that I'm looking for.
And provided that I've indexed
my content for anchor lookup,
Help Viewer takes care of figuring out
what file that anchor's in and scrolling
to the appropriate place in the file.
You can also perform a search of
the help content either of your
book only or of the entire help
content installed on the system.
Here you see ahsearch with
a CFString for find files.
That's searching all of the help
content for how to find files.
So you might find how to
find files using your app,
but you'd probably also find help
about how to find files using Sherlock.
The next one limits the
search to just your book.
And there you just specify the book ID,
again the Apple title,
and then the search string.
Okay, just to make sure that you
guys understand this stuff,
the anchor stuff without a demo
is a little bit hard to get.
You may have seen a demo.
If you went to the
documentation session yesterday,
they did a demo where Project Builder
was integrated with Help Viewer.
And what they were doing
there was an anchor lookup.
They called up help on
a particular Carbon API,
and it launched Help Viewer and brought
you to exactly that API's documentation.
So this is sort of a schematic
of what that would be.
You can see the arrow pointing
inside of the HTML file,
and the HTML there again is
the a name equals anchor.
And then Help Viewer,
when an anchor lookup was
performed for get folder name,
would open this page and
scroll to that anchor.
So we have talked about the APIs,
and I hope you're going
to go and try them.
Again, the examples that I gave
you all work on your CD.
And now I'm going to talk a little
bit about the URLs in depth.
Some of them, again, are very new,
but again, all of the examples I'm
giving you are going to work.
So what are these URLs for?
They're for use from within your content
to make that content more dynamic.
They exploit the very same features
of the help viewer as the APIs do,
plus one additional one that just doesn't
make sense from an API perspective.
So those features fall into
three categories again.
They open the help viewer
to a specific location,
they perform a search,
and they run an AppleScript.
The first that we're going to talk about,
open the help viewer to
a particular location.
First is the help go to help center.
That is equivalent to the
AH go to main TOC API.
So here you specify help go to help
center equals user to go to the help
center and help go to help center
developer to go to the developer center.
This might not seem like much,
but it's actually a really excellent
feature because in the past you
couldn't have linked to the help
center from your help content.
You would have to rely that the user knew
how to click that button on the toolbar
to take them back to the help center.
Why?
Because you don't know where
we're writing the help center.
That's a generated file.
So now you do have a way to link to
that and that can be really helpful.
The next one is Help Open Book.
So this is analogous to some of the
variations of the AH Go to Page API.
Here the example you see
is a Help Open Book with
just the book ID specified.
Note here that the space in
the book name is escaped,
because this is a URL and
spaces really aren't valid.
The book name again is the Apple title,
not the folder name.
So what this would do is bring
you to the main page of your book.
Once again,
this is sort of an interesting feature.
You're thinking, well,
why wouldn't I just link to that using a
regular file colon URL to my main page?
Why use the silly Help Open Book thing?
Well, so there's a way that you can
generate your TOC file for your book.
And that's discussed in the SDK.
I don't think Gordon went over it,
but it's an interesting feature.
Because this TOC would be generated,
the main page for your book is generated,
once again you suffer from the same
situation with the Help Center.
You don't know where we're
generating that file.
You couldn't possibly link to it.
So this gives you a way to do that.
And that can be very useful.
Next is the Help Anchor URL.
Obviously, probably this is analogous
to the Anchor lookup.
Again, I keep thinking with these APIs,
when I was thinking about this talk,
how am I going to explain to
them why these are useful,
why these are more useful than any of the
standard HTML URLs that they could use?
So this one was tricky, but the point is,
again, that this is allowing you
to move your content around
until the very last second.
So this is useful not when you're
worrying about breaking your app,
but it's useful when you're worried
about breaking your other help content.
If you have a very complicated book,
you might have 300 HTML files.
If you have a complicated app
and you've got a lot of help.
So what if at the last second
somebody changes the name of a file?
What are you going to do?
What if you miss changing the links to
that file from elsewhere in your content?
Well, this keeps you from having
to worry about that.
If you rather use this help anchor
URL instead of using a file colon
URL with an anchor appended,
this will prevent mistakes like that.
And finally, this one's, I'll admit,
I'm on a campaign to tell
you why these are so useful.
This last one is actually a
little silly and I'll admit it.
But it fit in well because
I had to implement this
functionality for the APIs.
There's a help:fullpathtofile URL.
So you're thinking,
why on earth would I want to
use this instead of a file:?
Well, you know what?
I thought of a reason.
I'm proud of myself.
I thought today.
It took me forever to come up with it.
You can actually use this as long
as Internet Config has set up your
internet preferences properly for
help:viewer to be the help:handler.
If you put this URL inside
of content that,
for instance,
might get opened in Internet Explorer,
when a user clicks on this link,
it will open the help:viewer.
So you might want to use this for files
that contain content very specific
to the help:viewer that you would
never want opened in Internet Explorer.
For instance,
something that might have run script
URLs that launch Apple scripts.
Thank you.
Finally, performing a search and
running an AppleScript.
You can put URLs for searches
inside of your content.
That's a help:search.
You can, again, as with the API,
either limit that search to your
book or search all content installed.
For an example of this,
which is pretty neat,
they're not actually using a help:search,
but it is a search from within content,
so it'll get you thinking on
why you might want to do this.
Look into the Mac Help book
on your DP4 CD and you'll see
that list of quick clicks.
You'll notice when you click
on them that that initiates a
search for a particular term.
Check that out and it'll get you thinking
on why you might want to use these URLs.
Then Gordon did a very good
job of explaining what running
an AppleScript is good for.
I'm just going to give a slightly more
specific example for formatting purposes.
You see that it's help:runScript=HELP.
Then a path to your script,
which is relative to your book's folder.
Again, it's a URL,
so please escape spaces if you've got a
space in your book folder in its name.
Okay,
so we're done talking about the APIs and
we're done talking about the URLs.
I'm going to take a moment just to
note that if you're left feeling like,
"Wow, she just bombarded me
with a ton of information.
I couldn't copy down the
examples," anything like that,
we're going to give you an email
address that you can send questions to.
Please do.
Don't feel like we don't want to hear
from you because I'm just desperate for
you to adopt this technology and I want
to make it as easy for you as possible.
On that note,
let's talk about the rendering library.
This is the underlying technology
that renders HTML in the help viewer.
On 10, it's shipped as the
HTML rendering framework,
which is a part of the
Carbon umbrella in DP4.
On Mac OS 9, it's still available as a
non-carbon shared library,
but it will also be
available in CarbonLib.
What exactly is this thing and
why would I want to use it?
Well, you use it to render HTML into
any window in your application.
An example of this might be if you
had an About box and you wanted more
dynamic-looking About box content.
You wanted a picture in there.
You wanted a link to
something out on the internet.
You can use the Rendering
Library and have a pane inside of
your About box that renders HTML.
Well, so what exactly does it do?
Well,
it has the same capabilities that you see
for HTML rendering in the Help Viewer.
So all that stuff with
movies and image maps,
and it can play sounds.
It does some really interesting things.
Just in case you forgot the recent demos,
I've got a screenshot here that
shows that it's got a picture,
it's got the image map of that button,
it's got, I believe this page is
a table within a table,
it's got a font specified,
it's got a colored table cell.
It does some pretty interesting stuff.
Yeah, well, give me the details.
Well, so it does HTML 3.2,
which includes lists, frames, tables,
images in client-side image maps,
and QuickTime embedding
of any QuickTime content
that you can throw at us.
What doesn't it do?
Now this is a little controversial
for some of you in the audience.
It doesn't do HTML 4.0.
It doesn't do cascading style sheets.
And basically,
it's not real good for browsing the web.
Use Internet Explorer for that or
another browser of your choice.
So, if it doesn't browse the web,
why do I need it?
Well, it's really lightweight.
We did it that way on purpose.
It's fast.
It's ideal for tailored content.
What I mean by this is that you
don't want to use it for pulling
web pages down when you haven't,
you're not sure what's in there.
It might be HTML 4.0,
it might be malformed HTML,
it might be anything.
That's not what it's great at.
It's great at content
that you design for it.
You've seen it be great
at rendering help content.
It's also really good at item
descriptions or item summaries.
I'll show you in a demo in a minute,
we use it in software update.
And you can also use
it for advertisements.
As I mentioned,
you can have an about box, renders HTML,
and has a really cool looking
ad for related products to the
software that you're already selling.
And at this point,
I'm going to show you a demo
of the rendering library.
So here we are, and we're going to
launch software update.
So for those of you unfamiliar
with software update,
it's Apple's mechanism for delivering
updates to the installed software.
And I believe it shipped on Mac OS 9,
and you can update your
software on that with it.
And it's shipping now in DP4
inside of the system demos folder,
I believe.
It wants me to click the
Update Now button to see
what software is available.
I think I'll do it.
Looking for updates?
Let's hope the internet
is being nice to us.
What have we here?
It's found an update to Mac OS X.
You guys think I could do that?
Install Mac OS X right on
here using software update?
Well,
let's see what it says about Mac OS X.
This pane here is the rendering library.
And you know, it's simpler than the
help viewer content.
That's because I am
just not a web designer.
So what does this say?
Let's see,
Mac OS X has some great features,
including a new version of the already
excellent HTML rendering library.
Did you guys know that?
Before you update,
consider a visit to the Apple Store to
purchase a G4 and a cinema display,
making X all the more enjoyable.
Don't I wish I had one?
All right,
so let's visit the Apple Store.
Maybe I'll buy myself a cinema
display while my boss isn't looking.
Oh, wait, he's looking.
He's right there.
So check it out.
That's an example of how
you can bring people to your
website to purchase things.
So I hope that you're going
to go check it out and use it.
So I'm about done with my spiel,
but I'll tell you where you
can get more information.
Admittedly, as I said,
the documentation for the
Apple Help APIs is a little lacking,
but we're working on it.
We're working real hard.
So for now,
check out the System Library Framework's
Help Framework.
You'll see the header there.
You can get going.
And I'll give you an email
address to send questions to.
For other general Apple Help information,
including a link to the
SDK that Gordon mentioned,
that has a lot of interesting
content authoring tips and
lessons and neat stuff,
samples.
Also information on some of our legacy
technologies in case you need to figure
out how to transition away from them.
Visit developer.apple.com/macos/help.html
.
And that's a good jumping off
point for lots of information.
And then for specific information
on the HTMLRenderingLibrary,
there's sample code.
And I know that's a long URL,
so I'll try to dawdle and make sure
that you guys have time to copy it down.
That's
developer.apple.com/samplecode/Ssample_C
ode/HumanInterfaceToolbox.htm.
And then there's also a PDF with
documentation on each of the individual
HTML rendering APIs and how to use them.
And, well,
I've been reading out all the other URLs.
So developer.apple.com/techpubs.html.
Mac OS 8.
PDF.
HTML_renderinglib.pdf.
And, you know, these are long.
So if you didn't make it,
just go to the developer.apple.com
site and get to the
documentation area and search it.
And you'll find this stuff.
So how can you communicate with us?
Because we know that you want to.
At least I want you to.
You can email the engineering team,
including myself, at AppleHelpComments.
That's capital A, capital H, capital C.
Oh, why am I saying that?
I'm sorry.
I'm a spaz.
Email addresses are all lowercase.
You guys know that.
At group.apple.com.
Apple Help Authoring Discussion List.
This is in particular for tech
writers or content authors,
and you can discuss with
each other what you're doing,
get answers.
I'm not sure if it's
monitored by Apple or not.
Maybe Gordon would answer that
question when he comes up here later.
You can find that from lists.apple.com.
Finally, you can always communicate
with John Galenzi.
He is the
User Experience Technology Manager,
and he handles developer
relations for our technology.
That's galenzi, spelled G-E-L-E-Y-N-S-E,
at apple.com.
And with my giving his email address,
I'll invite him back on stage,
and he's going to take us
through the roadmap and Q&A.
Thanks, Jessica.
So let's just talk about
the roadmap briefly.
Many of these sessions have passed,
but it's important to know that they
did talk about issues related to
Aqua and user experience and APIs that
were talked about here-- packaging,
bundling, these sorts of things.
Tomorrow is a session
on navigation services,
which doesn't apply
directly to Apple Help,
but it relates to the
user experience sub-track,
and it relates to you delivering
really consistent and really rich user
experience in your applications on 10.
And, of course,
the ever-famous or infamous
Aqua Feedback Forum,
which we're looking forward
to your participation in.